README.md, before:

# Lab Manager

A comprehensive scientific sample management system that integrates spreadsheet template handling, storage management with barcode tracking, and sequencing job orchestration.

## Documentation

For detailed documentation, please visit our [Documentation Center](docs/README.md). The documentation includes:
- User guides
- API documentation
- Development guides
- Deployment instructions
- Troubleshooting guides

## Features

- **Template Management**
  - Spreadsheet template upload and processing
  - Metadata extraction and tracking
  - Relational database mapping
  - Template validation and verification

- **Sample Processing**
  - Sample submission wizard
  - Status tracking through submission lifecycle
  - Barcode generation and association
  - Validation rules enforcement

- **Sequencing Management**
  - Sample sheet creation for sequencing jobs
  - Job status management
  - Template-to-sample relationships
  - Sequencing workflow validation

- **Storage Control**
  - Barcode-based storage tracking
  - Location management
  - Sample storage state transitions
  - Storage validation rules

## Tech Stack

### Backend
- Rust
- PostgreSQL
- SQLx for database operations
- Actix-web for API endpoints

### Frontend
- React with TypeScript
- Vite for build tooling
- Tailwind CSS for styling
- React Router for navigation

### Infrastructure
- Docker and Docker Compose for containerization
- Nginx for production serving
- PostgreSQL for data persistence

## Prerequisites

- Docker and Docker Compose
- Git
- Ports 80, 3000, 3001, 5173, and 5432 available

## Quick Start

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone <repository-url>
   cd lab_manager
   ```

2. Run the project:
   ```bash
   ./scripts/run.sh
   ```

   This will:
   - Set up the environment
   - Build and start all services
   - Show access points and logs

## Access Points

- Production Frontend: http://localhost
- Production API: http://localhost/api
- Development Frontend: http://localhost:5173
- Development API: http://localhost:3000

## Development

### Running in Development Mode

```bash
docker-compose up frontend-dev dev db
```

This will start:
- Frontend with hot reloading
- Backend with auto-rebuild
- PostgreSQL database

### Project Structure

```
lab_manager/
├── frontend/           # React frontend application
├── src/               # Rust backend source code
│   ├── config/       # Configuration
│   ├── handlers/     # API handlers
│   ├── models/       # Data models
│   ├── sample_submission/  # Sample processing
│   ├── sequencing/   # Sequencing management
│   └── storage/      # Storage management
├── migrations/        # Database migrations
├── scripts/          # Utility scripts
└── docker-compose.yml # Docker configuration
```

### Database Migrations

Migrations are managed using SQLx. To create a new migration:

```bash
cargo sqlx migrate add <migration_name>
```

To run migrations:

```bash
cargo sqlx migrate run
```

## Docker Commands

```bash
# View logs
docker-compose logs -f

# Stop all services
docker-compose down

# Rebuild and restart services
docker-compose up --build -d

# View running containers
docker-compose ps
```

## Environment Variables

The following environment variables are used:

- `DATABASE_URL`: PostgreSQL connection string
- `STORAGE_PATH`: Path for file storage
- `RUST_LOG`: Logging level for Rust application

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Commit your changes
4. Push to the branch
5. Create a Pull Request

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

The MIT License is a permissive license that is short and to the point. It lets people do anything they want with your code as long as they provide attribution back to you and don't hold you liable.

Key points of the MIT License:
- Commercial use
- Modification
- Distribution
- Private use

For more information about the MIT License, visit [choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/).

## Support

[Add support information here]

Commit message:

On branch master Your branch is up to date with 'origin/master'.
Changes to be committed:
	modified:   README.md
	modified:   docker-compose.yml
	modified:   frontend/src/App.tsx
	modified:   frontend/src/components/SampleSubmissionWizard.tsx
	modified:   frontend/src/components/SequencingJobDetails.tsx
	modified:   frontend/src/components/StorageManagement.tsx
	modified:   frontend/src/pages/Dashboard.tsx
	modified:   frontend/src/pages/Samples.tsx
	modified:   frontend/src/pages/Sequencing.tsx
	modified:   frontend/src/pages/Storage.tsx
	modified:   frontend/tsconfig.app.json
	modified:   src/tests/mod.rs
	modified:   src/tests/template_tests.rs

README.md, after:

# Lab Manager

A comprehensive scientific sample management system that integrates spreadsheet template handling, storage management with barcode tracking, and sequencing job orchestration.

## Documentation

For detailed documentation, please visit our [Documentation Center](docs/README.md). The documentation includes:
- User guides
- API documentation
- Development guides
- Deployment instructions
- Troubleshooting guides

## Features

- **Template Management**
  - Spreadsheet template upload and processing
  - Metadata extraction and tracking
  - Relational database mapping
  - Template validation and verification

- **Sample Processing**
  - Sample submission wizard
  - Status tracking through submission lifecycle
  - Barcode generation and association
  - Validation rules enforcement

- **Sequencing Management**
  - Sample sheet creation for sequencing jobs
  - Job status management
  - Template-to-sample relationships
  - Sequencing workflow validation

- **Storage Control**
  - Barcode-based storage tracking
  - Location management
  - Sample storage state transitions
  - Storage validation rules

## Tech Stack

### Backend
- Rust
- PostgreSQL
- SQLx for database operations
- Actix-web for API endpoints

### Frontend
- React with TypeScript
- Vite for build tooling
- Tailwind CSS for styling
- React Router for navigation

### Infrastructure
- Docker and Docker Compose for containerization
- Nginx for production serving
- PostgreSQL for data persistence

## Prerequisites

- Docker and Docker Compose
- Git
- Ports 80, 3000, 3001, 5173, and 5432 available

## Quick Start

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone <repository-url>
   cd lab_manager
   ```

2. Run the project:
   ```bash
   ./scripts/run.sh
   ```

   This will:
   - Set up the environment
   - Build and start all services
   - Show access points and logs

## Access Points

- Production Frontend: http://localhost
- Production API: http://localhost/api
- Development Frontend: http://localhost:5173
- Development API: http://localhost:3000

## Development

### Running in Development Mode

```bash
docker-compose up frontend-dev dev db
```

This will start:
- Frontend with hot reloading
- Backend with auto-rebuild
- PostgreSQL database

### Project Structure

```
lab_manager/
├── frontend/           # React frontend application
├── src/               # Rust backend source code
│   ├── config/       # Configuration
│   ├── handlers/     # API handlers
│   ├── models/       # Data models
│   ├── sample_submission/  # Sample processing
│   ├── sequencing/   # Sequencing management
│   └── storage/      # Storage management
├── migrations/        # Database migrations
├── scripts/          # Utility scripts
└── docker-compose.yml # Docker configuration
```

### Database Migrations

Migrations are managed using SQLx. To create a new migration:

```bash
cargo sqlx migrate add <migration_name>
```

To run migrations:

```bash
cargo sqlx migrate run
```

## Docker Commands

```bash
# View logs
docker-compose logs -f

# Stop all services
docker-compose down

# Rebuild and restart services
docker-compose up --build -d

# View running containers
docker-compose ps
```

## Environment Variables

The following environment variables are used:

- `DATABASE_URL`: PostgreSQL connection string
- `STORAGE_PATH`: Path for file storage
- `RUST_LOG`: Logging level for Rust application

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Commit your changes
4. Push to the branch
5. Create a Pull Request

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

The MIT License is a permissive license that is short and to the point. It lets people do anything they want with your code as long as they provide attribution back to you and don't hold you liable.

Key points of the MIT License:
- Commercial use
- Modification
- Distribution
- Private use

For more information about the MIT License, visit [choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/).

## Support

For support and questions, please use one of the following channels:

- **GitHub Issues**: Report bugs, request features, or ask questions through our [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/poglesbyg/lab_manager/issues) page
- **Email**: For urgent matters or private concerns, contact us at paul_grant @ med.unc.edu
- **Documentation**: Check our [documentation center](docs/README.md) for detailed guides and troubleshooting


When seeking support, please include:
- A clear description of the issue
- Steps to reproduce (if applicable)
- Relevant error messages or logs
- Your environment details (OS, browser, etc.)
